This should hopefully have
been an easy exercise.
By the way, if you haven't finished
the exercises by the time period,
don't worry about it.
Just look at the final code.
And yeah, just watch.
So, what we wanna do is we wanna
copy the timer machine that
we created an exercise zero and
let's just copy that over.
Here because that's going to be the same
timer machine that we're going to use.
And so now in the timer, we're gonna be
changing this from use reducer before.
Now this is going to use machine use
the use machine hook from x state react.
So we're gonna say const state sent,
Equals use machine and
we are going to grab
that timer machine and
that's all we should need over here.
I changed States to state dot value for
you.
That should be a hint that.
Now that finite state value
exists on the state.value
property instead of the state itself.
So, over here, we had to change
this to if state.value equals
paused Then we wanna show the reset
button, is data value equals running.
We wanna show the pause timer and
same thing over here we want to,
check if the state value is paused or
idle.
Then we showed the play button.
Now this would be a good points to go and
check your logic just to see,
if we missed anything.
Of course, we haven't.
Error over here cannot read
property with config undefined.
I'm probably using a wrong import.
So let's take a look over here.
Cuz I'm not actually using the machine.
So we wanna create this, sorry, we wants
to actually create a, X state machine.
So we are gonna say const create, sorry.
Import create machine from X date re or
X date.
And so this is going to go and
create machine just like this.
And that's actually going
to be our timer machine.
So trying this again, if we go back,
now you'll see that everything
is still looking the same.
Obviously we need to add those bits of
functionality to each of our buttons.
So let's go ahead and
do that in the timer.
So on click, we're going to send toggle.
Again, you could send strings,
or you could send an object so
you could have type toggle on.
Either one of those works,
if you have a simple event,
which is an events that only has a type.
And so, we're going to send reset,
or I guess should be reset.
Over here, send toggle.
Same thing over here.
Send toggle.
So now this is going to work the exact
same way that your previous non ex
state state machine Worked before.
And so you can see it goes to running, we
could pause it between running and paused.
And when we click Reset,
it goes back to idle and
the button is going to
work the exact same way.
And so it really simplifies
how things work together.
So I'm just gonna, Okay,
so one really neat thing about
axstate react is that before
we were modeling our application,
using basically pencil and
paper or a whiteboard app such as Excel,
draw Using that to map directly to
the logic in our application so
that our state machine config looks
basically like what we drew up.
In the future there will be creation tools
that allow you to essentially do the same
thing as excal Draw and
have that be running code.
But sometimes we want to visually see
that the logic In our time machine is
correct as we run the app.
And so we could do that using
inspect tool called X Date Inspect.
So I'll just quickly
show you how this works.
You don't need to use this for
every exercise, but this is just a,
a nice tool that you could use to help
you if we import Inspect from Inspect,
and we inspect I'm going to set
iframe to false there's an option for
inspecting within an iframe or
inspecting in a separate window.
So I'm just gonna have it be
a separate window, you're going
to notice something different and
that's that this We do have to install it.
So, yarn add xstate/inspect.
So we'll go ahead and add that real quick.
All right, this should go.
Let's now resolve x students
>> You're missing a x in the import.
>> Well.
I have to talk to the person who owns
the stattal organization, because,
I would like that.
Xstate is fine though.
[LAUGH].
All right.
Now, you might notice that
popups do get blocked, so
just make sure to unblock popups for
Local host or
also code sandbox if you're using
the inspect tool within code sandbox.
And now it says waiting for connection.
So what this is going
to do is it's going to
visualize your machine if
dev tools are set to true.
So if you have dev tools true.
And we reload this.
What's interesting is that
playing around with this,
actually it actually changes
the state over here.
So let me.
Let me put this side by side, so
you should see that when I
manipulate the machine here,
it actually manipulates it here as well.
So if I click toggle again,
you could see it going to the state and
then it shows you what events
are possible from that state.
So we could reset it and
it goes back to idle click toggle.
Running.
And you can also see the events
in real time over here.
And in the sequence diagram over here, the
sequence diagram won't be useful unless
you have multiple machines that
are talking to each other.
But the events panel is useful because
it shows you each one of the events that
are sent to the machine.
So that's how you could
use the inspect tool to.
Visualize your machine in real time.
So useful tool.
I hope you play around with it.
By the end of the year there's gonna
be some awesome updates to that.
So, yeah, but for
now we are just going to turn it off Yeah,
it's just nice tool that you could use.